[ADD] accounting: add self-billing feature (#17286)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/vendor_bills.rst

   Once confirmed, a vendor bill can no longer be updated. Click :guilabel:`Reset to draft` if
   changes are required.

.. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing:

Self-billing
============

Self-billing is when a customer generates a vendor bill on the supplier's behalf and sends a copy of
the vendor bill to the supplier for their records. This workflow removes the need for the supplier
to send the customer a vendor bill and is common in industries where the customer has more reliable
transaction data. It also reduces the time to pay the supplier as the customer does not have to wait
for the supplier to issue a vendor bill.

Odoo supports the generation of both self-billing vendor bills and self-billing credit notes.
Sending these self-billing vendor bills and credit notes is supported in Odoo via Peppol.

.. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/config:

Configuration
-------------

> To configure self-billing in Odoo, first create a separate purchase journal specifically for
> self-billing:
> 
> #. Navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals`.
> #. Click the :guilabel:`New` button.
> #. Enter a :guilabel:`Journal Name` and set the :guilabel:`Type` to :guilabel:`Purchase`.
> #. In the :guilabel:`Journal Entries` tab, set a :guilabel:`Default Expense Account` and enter a
>    :guilabel:`Short Code`.
> #. In the :guilabel:`Advanced Settings` tab, enable :guilabel:`Self Billing`.

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure here but should we maybe just focus on what is specific to this particular journal that we need here and reference the Journals documentation for the rest? (in any case, I think we should reference that doc, in a seealso at the very least?)

Maybe something like:

```suggestion
To configure self-billing in Odoo, first :doc:`create <add the link to the journals doc>`a separate purchase journal specifically for self-billing and configure it as follows:

#. Set the :guilabel:`Type` field to :guilabel:`Purchase`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Journal Entries` tab, set a :guilabel:`Default Expense Account` and enter a
   :guilabel:`Short Code`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Advanced Settings` tab, enable :guilabel:`Self Billing`.
```
(really not sure the change is worth it here, but I'm going to leave this comment to have your opinion 😉 )

Author: We'll add this in 18.0-18.4 and 19.0+ since it's not available before :)

.. note::
   The sequence of self-bills contains the :ref:`database ID <export_import_data/different-ids>`
   (also known as the internal ID) of the partner, making the sequence unique per partner.

.. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/create:

Create a self-bill
------------------

Self-bills can be created both :ref:`manually <accounting/vendor_bills/creation-manual>` and
:ref:`automatically <accounting/vendor_bills/automatic>`. When creating self-bills, be sure to
either create them directly from the :ref:`self-billing purchase journal

> <accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/config>` or manually set the :guilabel:`Journal` of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/config>` on the :guilabel:`Accounting Dashboard` or manually set the :guilabel:`Journal` of the
```
for clarification (to make sure it can't be confused with the journal's form, just in case!)

self-bill to the self-billing purchase journal.

.. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/send:

Send a self-bill
----------------

To send a self-bill after :ref:`creating <accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/create>` and
confirming it, click :guilabel:`Send & Print`.

To send multiple self-bills at once, select them in the list view and click :guilabel:`Send`.

> 

Reviewer: just a quick note to also mention the Send window here?

Author: I'm actually not sure how it will behave in 17.0 since they won't have the option to send by email, but I'll test once it's backported and update accordingly. I've added the send window explanation in my 19.0 version :)

.. note::
   Not every Peppol access point supports self-billing. Check with your vendors to ensure that their
   Peppol access point supports self-billing. The :guilabel:`Send` button only appears when the

>    bill's :guilabel:`Vendor` is able to receive self-bills.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Not every Peppol access point supports self-billing. Check with your vendors to confirm that
   their access point supports it. The :guilabel:`Send` button only appears when the
```
- I also think we should refer to the Peppol documentation somewhere here

- and does the [contact verfication step](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices/electronic_invoicing.html#contact-verification) need to be performed for the vendor prior to sending the self-bill, to verify the vendor's access point?

Author: You're absolutely right about referring to the peppol doc :)
Good question on the contact verification step - I'll check with the PO :)

   Once confirmed, a vendor bill can no longer be updated. Click :guilabel:`Reset to draft` if
   changes are required.

.. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing:

Self-billing
============

Self-billing is a workflow where a customer generates a vendor bill on the supplier's behalf and
sends a copy to the supplier for their records. It removes the need for the supplier to send the
customer a vendor bill and is common in industries where the customer has more reliable transaction
data. It also reduces payment time as the customer does not have to wait for the supplier to issue a
vendor bill.

Odoo supports the generation of self-billing vendor bills and self-billing credit notes, both of
which can be sent via Peppol.

> .. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing-config:
```

Configuration
-------------

To configure self-billing in Odoo, first create a separate purchase journal specifically for
self-billing:

#. Navigate to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Configuration --> Journals`.
#. Click the :guilabel:`New` button.
#. Enter a :guilabel:`Journal Name` and set the :guilabel:`Type` to :guilabel:`Purchase`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Journal Entries` tab, set a :guilabel:`Default Expense Account` and enter a
   :guilabel:`Short Code`.
#. In the :guilabel:`Advanced Settings` tab, enable :guilabel:`Self Billing`.

> .. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/create:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing-create:
```

Create a self-bill
------------------

Self-bills can be created both :ref:`manually <accounting/vendor_bills/creation-manual>` and
:ref:`automatically <accounting/vendor_bills/automatic>`. When creating self-bills, be sure to
either create them directly from the :ref:`self-billing purchase journal
<accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/config>` on the :guilabel:`Accounting Dashboard` or manually
set the :guilabel:`Journal` of the self-bill to the self-billing purchase journal.

.. note::
   The sequence of self-bills contains the :ref:`database ID <export_import_data/different-ids>`
   (also known as the internal ID) of the partner, making the sequence unique per partner.

> .. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/send:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing-send:
```

Send a self-bill
----------------

To send a self-bill after :ref:`creating <accounting/vendor_bills/self-billing/create>` and
confirming it, click :guilabel:`Send & Print`. In the :guilabel:`Send & Print` popup window, select
the sending methods (i.e., :guilabel:`Email`, :guilabel:`By Post`, and/or the appropriate Peppol
format), and click :guilabel:`Send & Print`.

.. note::
   - If sending self-bills via :ref:`Peppol <accounting/e-invoicing/peppol>`, first
     :ref:`configure your Peppol registration <accounting/e-invoicing/peppol-registration>`, then
     verify that the vendor is registered with Peppol. The :ref:`contact verification process
     <accounting/e-invoicing/contact-verification>` for vendors is the same as for customers except
     that vendors' contact records can be found via :menuselection:`Accounting --> Vendors -->

>      Vendors`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - If sending self-bills via :ref:`Peppol <accounting/e-invoicing/peppol>`, first
     :ref:`configure your Peppol registration <accounting/e-invoicing/peppol-registration>`, then
     verify that the vendor is registered with Peppol. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting
     --> Vendors --> Vendors`, then go through the :ref:`contact verification process
     <accounting/e-invoicing/contact-verification>`.
```
(as per the 19.0's doc and related review 😉 )

   - The :guilabel:`Send & Print` button only appears when then the bill's :guilabel:`Vendor`
     is registered on Peppol.
   - Not every Peppol access point supports self-billing. Check with your vendors to ensure that

>      their Peppol access point supports self-billing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - The :guilabel:`Send & Print` button only appears when the bill's :guilabel:`Vendor`
     is registered on Peppol.
   - Not every Peppol access point supports self-billing. Check with your suppliers to ensure theirs
     does.
```
